+++
date = '2025-01-18T00:00:00-00:00'
draft = false
title = 'At the term_date crossroads'
categories = ["course-manager"]
+++

I've been making a ton of progress though I haven't been writing it here.

Major decision to be made regarding how to store term dates. Currently I have a table for instructional days and a table for non-instructional days but only one of them is used in the application, so the non-instruct table is empty. Since these days are mutually exclusive I have a challenge in that I need to make sure any change to one is checked against the other and handled appropriately.

So, say if user adds a non-instructional day for a date which currently is listed in the instructional days (a highly probable scenario), the date would need to be deleted along with any associated lesson_date rows. This would not delete the lesson since lesson_dates is just a junction table. But then dates.day_number would then need to be updated, and I'm not sure this makes sense. I think day_number should probably be removed from persistence and calculated on the fly.

So to recap, the plan is:

- Use both instruct_dates ("dates") and non_instruct dates and check instruct_dates whenever there is a change to non_instruct_dates.
- Remove day_number
  - Remove from domain struct
  - Apply migration
  - Modify schema to remove column from schema
  - Modify any application code that uses day_number (e.g. I think FitToTerm uses this)
  - I think that rather than fixing the import from csv code, I'll just delete it.
- Code to modify dates in either table should modify dates in the other table accordingly.
- Add ON DELETE CASCADE to lesson_dates if it's not already there
- Since day_number will be gone I'll need to ensure dates are sorted by date.

On second thought:

- I could pretty easily extrapolate the non-instruct days from the instruct days.
- Or I could put all the dates in one table, and add a bool column to indicate whether it's an instruct day. Could also add a reason column to indicate why it's a non-instruct day.
