+++
date = '2025-06-01T00:00:00-04:00'
draft = false
title = 'Deployed!'
categories = ["course-manager"]
tags = ["projects"]
+++

Major milestone today. After 2 months I finally deployed a full rewrite with no issues. I expected to have all kinds of problems because I made such huge changes, in addition to restructuring everything, but miraculously everything went smoothly. It's nice to be surprised in that way instead of the other way, which is a good case for being pessimistic 😅

One major change I made is I now build one site per course rather than one site per user. Now you can give students a URL and that's only the course they're taking and no others. Now I need to figure out a way to limit the number of course sites that can be built or it will get out of control very quickly with multiple users.

One thing I'm not happy about is that the site build seems to take a lot longer. Most of this is in Hugo. For a full course it takes a good 10 seconds or so.

This is despite the fact that I switched from building a site for multiple courses to building one site per course!

So it's still somewhat of an open question whether I made the right move in switching my site generator over to Hugo.  I still think it's worth it because of the features that Hugo offers, but the loss of speed definitely gives me cause for concern.

Locally the site build was very fast, but my test data was a lot smaller whereas in production I have a full course site to build.

My custom site generator was extremely fast comparably. I wonder where the bottlenecks are in Hugo. I am guessing it's where I'm adding resources and pages in my content adapter.
