+++
date = '2025-12-30T00:00:00-00:00'
draft = false
title = 'What a mess I have made'
categories = ["course-manager"]
+++

### 12/30/24

- 12/30/24 Today was a day of stepping back and realizing I have created a whole new mess of problems.
- 12/30/24 I am increasingly thinking that I should try to eliminate the central importance of the unit in the system.
  - A lesson should belong to a course rather than a unit
  - A course should have a slice of lessons rather than a slice of units
  - Parts of the course manager and course site that lists all units will also need to list lessons that don't have a unit
  - New queries to fetch lessons by unit id.
- 12/30/24 I realized today that allowing the user to change the name of a lesson would completely mess up the system, since the file system for the site generator depends on the names of lessons remaining constant across terms.
  - New hidden file system where directories match lessonIDs rather than lesson names.
  - User will no longer touch slide text directly but will rather edit this text indirectly either:
    1. Write to temporary file with file watcher and allow user to edit through another program
    2. Edit through the app, while (at some point) providing marp preview
  - Directory will be copied over for each course i.e. when a course is fit to a new term
  - Slide text will be stored in Database as text and added as a field of Lesson
  - Site generator will write the text to a markdown file before running marp to render to HTML
  - To save size requirements, images will be kept in a single directory so they don't need to be copied over for each course
  - If a lesson has a new ID
- 12/30/24 Worked on the edit lesson form a bit.
- 12/29/24 Major milestone today. Finally got the calendar interface working with the ability to move lessons one date left or right. Got rid of CourseSchedule across all layers.
